Prayer to the Lineage of Lumorab
by Yeshé Dorjé

Namo Guru!
ngé sang gi tsemo changchub sem
Bodhicitta, summit of ultimate secrecy,
sishyi chö zungjuk nyampar dal
Expression of the equal unity of existence and peace,
drangmé kyi drub rik tsuk na tok
Crowning ornament of the accomplished family, beyond all counting,
palgön jé trulshyik lingpa khyen
Glorious protector, Lord Trulshik Lingpa,1 think of me!

gyalsé kyi chöpa gyatsor juk
You entered the ocean of bodhisattva conduct,
gyalten dang semchen pendé nyen
The remedy that benefits the teachings and brings comfort to beings,
gyal kün gyi gongpé long du peb
And you reached the wisdom expanse of all the Victors.
jetsün pal sönam tayé khyen
Glorious sovereign, Sönam Thayé,2 think of me!

do ngak kyi shingta bé ro jé
With the great and glorious dawning of your tremendous love
jé tsé yi nangwa yong shar né
For the chariot of sūtra and mantra of the Lord Vairocana,
chok sum gyi atir khorlö gyur
You turn the Ati-wheel of the Triple Gem.
rigdzin jé ku sum lingpa khyen
Awareness-holder, Lord Kusum Lingpa,3 think of me!

gyalwa nyi gyalwé sé su tam
A buddha yourself, you took birth as a bodhisattva,
ngagyur gyi tenpé sangdzö dzin
Holder of the secret treasury of the Ngagyur4 teachings.
khedrub kyi namtar sam mikhyab
Your life of learning and accomplishment is beyond imagination.
kyab chok jé pema wangchen khyen
Supreme Refuge, Lord Pema Wangchen,5 think of me!

zabter kün ka yi duwa dzé
Compiling all the profound treasure-teachings,
ngön jön gyi dampé jesu shyuk
You followed in the footsteps of previous sublime beings,
drub nyi chok pal takpa rol
Always delighting in the two accomplishments.
drinchen jé rami benza khyen
Lord of Great Kindness, supreme and glorious, Raśmi Vajra,6 think of me!

rimé kyi yongdzin tsuk na chok
Supreme adornment, master of the Rime teachings,
mindrol gyi dam zab tuk la peb
You internalized the profound ripening and liberating instructions,
trul tok gi dzin tsol ying su yal
And all the clinging and effort of thinking dissolved into space.
drubwang chok yeshe dorjé khyen
Supreme Lord of Siddhas, Yeshé Dorjé,7 think of me!

dön gyü kyi gongpé tsal chen dzok
You perfected the wisdom of the ultimate lineage,
kunzang gi chöpé shyennang gyur
Inspiring others with your perfect conduct,
ösal gyi nangwa tsé la peb
And reaching the very pinnacle of luminous appearances.
gyalsé jé chöying dorjé khyen
Lord Bodhisattva Chöying Dorjé,8 think of me!

jampal gyi jinlab tuk la shyuk
The blessings of Mañjuśrī entered your heart,
zakmé kyi gongpé tso chen dol
Causing an ocean of pristine wisdom to pour forth.
rangdrol la chöpé heruka
Heruka, sporting in self-liberation,
khedrub jé pendé özer khyen
Learned adept, Lord Pendé Özer,9 think of me!

tukjé chen chak na pekar chang
Compassionate bearer of the white lotus,
sang tön gyi drubpé kurshyengpa
Taking the form of an accomplished secret preceptor,
tulshyuk la chöpé rigpa dzin
You hold the awareness of yogic discipline.
dro gön jé döndrub wanggyal khyen
Protector of beings, Lord Döndrup Wangyal,10 think of me!

tutob kyi yuk dorjé dzin
Powerful vajra-mace holder,
dakchak gi mö ngor geweshé
Before our faithful countenance you are a virtuous friend
shyungluk kün dampar dril né tön
Who teaches the essential pith of all philosophies.
chö kyi jé khyentsé norbur khyen
Dharma Lord, Khyentsé Norbu,11 think of me!

shyönnü chok zurpü ngapé gar
Supreme youth, embodying the dance of the five topknots,12
ché tsö kyi gyalten salwar dzé
You clarify the Victor’s teachings with explanation and debate.
jikme kyi khyuchok mawé dzö
Treasury of speech, fearless leader,
sempa ché chö kyi drakpa khyen
Great Bodhisattva, Chökyi Drakpa,13 think of me!

tsogyalma duljé nang ngo ru
Lady Tsogyal, in the form of a disciple
mik zuk su jönpa naljorma
You arrived for all to see. Yoginī,
jin lob dang khyen tsé nü pé dzö
Treasury of blessings, wisdom, love, and power,
kunzang mo chö kyi drolma khyen
Samantabhadrī, Chökyi Drolma,14 think of me!

terchen jé dü na arpa la
At the time of the Great Tertön Arpa,
dakchak gi dren chok tsewé dak
You were our supreme guide, loving lord.
luk nyi la khyenpé pal ngawa
Glorious sovereign, knower of the two traditions,
ngawang jé tendzin chöjé khyen
Lord of Speech, Lord Tendzin Chöjé,15 think of me!

pakyul du drubchen sa ra ha
In the noble land of India, you were the Mahāsiddha Saraha,
böyul dumar pa lotsawa
And in Tibet, the Lotsawa Marpa.
nyönpa yi tul shyuk chö dzepa
You demonstrated the courageous discipline of a madman.
drubchen gön pema namgyal khyen
Mahāsiddha Protector Pema Namgyal,16 think of me!

pekar gön dakchak drenpé pal
White lotus protector, our glorious guide,
gyal kün gyi ngowo chikdü pa
Single essence of all the Victors,
khyen tsé nü pé pal ngawa
Sovereign of wisdom, love, and power
jamyang chö kyi drakpa khyen
Jamyang Chökyi Drakpa,17 think of me!

lona ni gé shing khokpa la
Although you are old and getting on in years,
chöpa ni jiwé chöpachen
Your behaviour is like that of a child,
su yi yang khala mi nyenpa
And you do not listen to anyone.
nyönpa chik kunzang wanggyal khyen
Crazy Yogi Kunzang Wangyal,18 think of me!

dakchak la lhakal babpé gön
Protector, our destined deity, come!
drubpé jé yabsé chok nam la
Lords of accomplishment, great masters and disciples,
dungshuk kyi solwa tabpé tü
By the power of my prayers, sincere and earnest,
jinlab gongpa powar shok
Let fall the rain of blessings of wisdom!
pak chen gyi tulshyuk chi dang ni
Free from the quagmire of positive and negative perception,
kadam kyi gong chö manyampa
May I attain the yogic discipline of the great Noble Ones
dinang la leknyé dam khadral
And the unfailing realization and conduct of the Kadampas.
chö gyé kyi drak kam rabtu pang
May I abandon the eight superficial ways of the world
pak nor gyi dak gyü chukpar dzö
And make my mind wealthy with the noblest of riches!
palgön gyi dampa khyé nam tar
May I become like you, sublime and glorious protectors,
zungdzin chö tekar shyikpa dang
You who are rid of the clinging to phenomena,
gyal drol gyi rigpa zaté dral
You, of the supreme liberation—awareness, free from fixation,
nangsi kün yangdak nangwa shar
You, who have genuinely seen the illumination of appearance and existence!
tsé di la chok gi drub nyé dzö
Bestow the supreme accomplishments, in this very life!
dakchak nam kyewé trengwa kün
In all our lifetimes, may we never be separated
jetsün gyi dampa khyé nam dang
From you—sublime and perfect, immaculate beings!
dralmé du dütsi pal la chö
Please enjoy the riches of this amṛta,
chamchik tu ngönpar changchub né
And then, having attained complete awakening together,
tayé kyi drowa drolwar shok
May we liberate infinite beings!

Unable to deny the sincere request of the fortunate individual who displays such diligent practice
and unwavering faith in these sublime and supreme beings, I, the devotee Könchok Bangpa,19
holder of the Three Refuges, wrote this down. Those verses dedicated to Pema Wangchen,
Raśmi Vajra, Döndrup Wangyal, Khyentsé Norbu, and Chökyi Drakpa were added by Jampal
Dewé Nyima. Those dedicated to Yeshé Dorjé, Chöying Dorjé, and Pendé Özer were added by Khyentsé
Norbu.20

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2019.
↑ That is Nyala Pema Düdul (1816–1872).↑ Sönam Thayé is a disciple and lineage holder of Nyala
Pema Düdul.↑ That is Tertön Rangrik Dorjé (1847–1903).↑ That is the Early Translation School.↑
Pema Wangchen, the son of Tertön Rangrik Dorjé, was recognized as the reincarnation
of Nyala Pema Düdul, Rangrik Dorjé’s root teacher. He served as the ninth throne-holder
of Mindroling.↑ Raśmi Vajra, a relative of the Milog family, is a disciple and lineage holder
of Tertön Rangrik Dorjé.↑ Yeshé Dorjé was a disciple of Nyala Pema Düdul; he was of great
service to the lineage of Tertön Rangrik Dorjé.↑ The second son of Tertön Rangrik Dorje;
he became a monk.↑ That is Khenchen Aten Jampal Dewé Nyima, the nephew of Tertön Rangrik
Dorjé.↑ That is Gyurmé Döndrup Wangyal, the tenth throne-holder of Mindroling (d. 1963).↑
The eighth Minling Khenchen, Ngawang Khyentsé Norbu (1904–1968).↑ Referring to Mañjuśrī’s
five topknots.↑ Minling Chung Rinpoché, Ngawang Chökyi Drakpa (1908–1980).↑ Jetsün Kunzang
Chödrön, daughter of Tertön Rangrik Dorjé; she became a nun.↑ Tendzin Chöjé was also known
as Tulku Angak.↑ Minling Penam, youngest brother of the tenth Mindroling throne-holder.↑
That is Shabdrung Rinpoché, the younger brother of the eleventh Mindroling throne-holder.↑
Gyurmé Kunzang Wangyal, the eleventh throne-holder of Mindroling (1931–2008).↑ Könchok
Bangpa is another name for Yeshé Dorjé. He was a disciple of Nyala Pema Düdul and stayed
at Lumorab monastery for many years along with Tertön Rangrik Dorjé. He was of great service
to the lineage of Lumorab and of Tertön Rangrik Dorjé.↑ Those dedicated to Chökyi Drolma,
Pema Namgyal, Jamyang Chökyi Drakpa and Kunzang Wangyal were added on the request of Nordzin
Lhamo—Lodi Gyari Rinpoché’s mother—by Kunzang Wangyal.