The Meaning of the Six Syllables of the King of Vidyā-Mantras, the Heroic Lord Mañjuśrī

by Jampal Dewé Nyima

I bow with devotion to Mañjuśrī!

The meaning of the six syllables of the Heroic Lord Mañjuśrī, the king of all vidyā-mantras,
can be briefly explained in relation to three main themes:

the generation stage,
the completion stage, and
the great perfection

1. The Generation Stage

Oṃ is the seed syllable that represents the five wisdoms and five kāyas, and this is applicable
to all three themes.

Any yogin who has pleased the vajra-master, whose mind has been ripened through the four empowerments,
who has kept the samayas completely pure, and who wishes to practice the generation
stage of the enlightened body, speech and mind of the jñānasattva Mañjuśrī in retreat,
should begin with the stages of the preliminary practices. Once the yogin has become familiar
with these:

A symbolizes the samādhi of suchness, which is beyond birth, dwelling, and cessation, and endowed
with the most sublime of all attributes.

Ra symbolizes the all-illuminating samādhi, the all-pervasive display of referenceless compassion
for sentient beings, as vast as space, which arises unstoppably out of suchness and
extends forever filling the whole of space.

Pa symbolizes the causal samādhi, the seed syllable which manifests as an indestructible bindu
out of the state of great bliss, the inseparable union of the two aforementioned samādhis.

Ca symbolizes generating the reigning primordial protector, Mañjuśrī, within the enclosure of
support and supported—the maṇḍala of the great purity of all that appears and exists—and
thus awakening to the great display of wisdom’s clear appearance.

Na symbolizes the invitation of the jñānasattva from the all-encompassing space of samādhi,
who merges indivisibly with the samayasattva, becoming of a single taste; and pleasing the
deity through the offering—the magical net of all appearance and existence—and the praise—the
equal taste of indivisibility.

Dhīḥ symbolizes the recitation in which sound never wavers from the samādhi of dharmatā; the
dissolution of the unceasingly clear appearance of the generation-stage deities into the
dharmadhātu, the all-encompassing space of great emptiness; and the profound seal of referenceless
dedication and aspiration.

2. The Completion Stage

A symbolizes the wisdom of the innate great bliss of the unborn ground—primordially pure, free
from complexity, intrinsic, and indestructible.

Ra symbolizes that which resides in the form of a letter within a bindu at the navel chakra,
which is found in the body of the six elements, with its four chakras and three channels.
In particular, there is a red a-stroke, which has the nature of fire, at the navel chakra
of channels, and at the crown there is an upside-down letter haṅ (ཧཾ) which is the essence
of the bindu of great bliss, the white pure essence.

Pa symbolizes the yogin seated upon a comfortable seat, who, having assumed the seven-point
posture of Vairocana, brings the winds of the three channels to rest in the centre of the
body through the four applications of vase breathing. He then summons the winds from the lalanā
and rasanā channels and brings them into the avadhūti channel. Fire blazes forth from
the a-stroke and travels upwards through the central chakras, until it touches the syllable
haṅ at the crown. As a result, the passionate bliss melts and descends from the crown,
down through the throat, heart, and navel to the secret place. The yogin traverses the four
joys of stability from below, which allows actual innate wisdom to be born within the mind.
Then, by relying on the winds and performing yogic exercises, the flow is reversed through
the navel, heart, throat, and crown chakras, so that the ultimate non-conceptual wisdom
is born within the mind and siddhi is attained.

Ca symbolizes the perfect application of key instructions related to the life-force—the wisdom
of great bliss—and practicing with one’s own body,[1] and, afterwards, the supporting method
of the pith instruction on the yogas practiced with a partner.

Na symbolizes the yogin who by relying on the support—a visualized or physical consort—actualizes
the blissful wisdom of descending flow and ascending stabilization,[2] and thereby attains
the non-conceptual wisdom of the path of seeing is attained.

Dhīḥ symbolizes traversing the four vidyādhara levels on the path of learning and actualizing
the path of no-more-learning, the stage of a vajradhara with seven aspects of union with
a consort.[3]

3. The Great Perfection

A symbolizes the present ordinary mind, when untainted by fabrications, the great dharmakāya
whose nature transcends any words, thoughts, or description. This realization of the great
dharmakāya is the direct introduction to the face of awareness itself.[4]

Ra symbolizes its radiance, the unceasing kāya, arising as the limitless display of the kāyas
and wisdoms. While not grasping at this, one gains certainty in the nature of the basis,
display, and adornment, the natural radiance of the dharmatā, free from proliferation or
reduction. This is the realization of the sambhogakāya or the decision upon one thing and
one thing only.

Pa symbolizes remaining effortlessly aware of this innate, indestructible state—this union of
awareness and emptiness—devoid of ‘someone maintaining’ or ‘something maintained’. This
is the wisdom of the nirmāṇakāya or confidence in the direct liberation of rising thoughts.

Ca symbolizes having confidence in this view and, on the basis of the three crucial points,
remaining free from attachment to whatever arises in limitless ways through the gates of the
wisdom of outwardly radiant visions on the path of the four lamps.[5]

Na symbolizes integrating these essential practices, so that one traverses the path of the four
visions. Then, within the space of inner luminosity, the display of outer luminosity will
dissolve within the inner space, by means of the six special qualities of Samantabhadra.[6]

Dhīḥ symbolizes actualizing the benefit for oneself, the attainment of supreme awakening, so
that for eons to come one manifests the luminous body of great transference and continuously
engages in compassionate activity.

Upon the request of the Dharma teacher Gendün Zangpo from Taktsé, in Serthar, this short verbal
explanation was composed by the monk Jampal Dewé Nyima. May virtue and auspiciousness
flourish!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang and Peter Woods), 2020.